---
published: true
title: Hedonic vs Utilitarian No.7
classes: wide
categories:
  - Hedonic
tags:
  - Conversational Agent
  - HCI
  - Speech Interaction
  - Voice Interaction
  - Agent Style
---



1. Title & Reference: 

   Chen, Y., Naveed, A., & Porzel, R. (2010, November). Behavior and preference in minimal personality: a study on embodied conversational agents. In *International Conference on Multimodal Interfaces and the Workshop on Machine Learning for Multimodal Interaction* (p. 49). ACM.

2. Objective:

   * Designing one personality in an ECA to fit all kinds of human factors is quite hard.
   * Our goal is not to design two perfectly adequate personalities of ECAs, but to find principles for designing more or less extroverted agents, with the goal to improve the user-satisfaction. 

3. Agent Type: Wizard of Oz. 3D simple humanoid body

4. Theme of conversation (domain): domain of studying digital media in the University of Bremen.

5. Memo:

   * the results significantly show that users talk more and have less speech disfluency when interacting with the extroverted agent. 

   * a difference in the mental models of computer experts versus non-computer experts

   * Extrovert speaking style:  extrovert language converses less formally / taking the lead in a conversation is construed as a sign of an extroverted personality

   * extroverted agent having larger and faster movements in its nonverbal behavior style. 

   * feedback signals, namely, the human expressions during the dialogues. We used both verbal modalities as the utterance “hmm”

   * agent’s competence, credibility, speaking style, behavior, etc., of the extroverted agent were scored higher than the introverted agent

   * users were more talkative while interacting with the extroverted agent

   * the mental models concerning ECAs of humans can be assumed to be different in various professional or cultural backgrounds

   * computer experts chose more simple words than non-computer experts did

   * the extroverted agent reduced users’ speech disfluency, manifested by hesitations, such as “um” or “uh”, in the utterance. Users in extroverted agent group spoke slower.

   * people prefer a personality which similar to themselves over different ones

   



