---
published: true
title: CA paper No.2
classes: wide
categories:
  - Tools
tags:
  - Conversational Agent
  - HCI
  - Speech Interaction
  - Voice Interaction
---

1. Title & Reference: 

Leigh Clark, Nadia Pantidi, Orla Cooney, Philip Doyle, Diego Garaialde, Justin Edwards, Brendan Spillane, Emer Gilmartin, 
Christine Murad, Cosmin Munteanu, Vincent Wade, and Benjamin R. Cowan. 2019. What Makes a Good Conversation?: 
Challenges in Designing Truly Conversational Agents. In Proceedings of the 2019 CHI Conference on Human Factors in 
Computing Systems (CHI '19). ACM, New York, NY, USA, Paper 475, 12 pages. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1145/3290605.3300705 

2. Memo:

 **Problem**
   
      Conversational Agent의 문제를 해결하기 위해 Human Speech functional Rule을 가져오려고 하지만, 
      Human-Agent와의 long-term relationship을 위해서는 Conversation의 key 특성을 이해할 필요가 있음.
      
 **Objects of research**
 
    * We aim to understand what people value in conversation and how this should manifest in agents.
      (1) what characteristics people see as important in conversation,
      (2) how these vary when applied to conversations with artificial agents.
        
 **What they did**
   
   * They achieve this by presenting the results of 17 semi-structured interviews on people’s     
     understandings and expectations of conversations with people and agents
   
 **Findings**
   
   * Two broad purposes for conversation: Social Purposes & Transactional purposes.  
    - Transaction purpose: more goal-oriented. gather information. 
     
   * Attributes of Conversation: Mutual understanding & Establishing common ground, Trustworthiness, 
     Active Listening, Humour
   
   * Conversing with friends vs Conversing with Acquaintances & Strangers = Shared experiences vs     
     more superficial and functional purpose (친구들과의 대화는 trust 기반으로 personal한 대화를 하는 반면, 관계과 깊지 않은 사람들과의 대화는 더 기능적인 측면이 있음) 
    
   * share vulnerabilities and personal information was see as an important step towards developing mutual trust and bond with others. (친구로 발전하기 위해서 필요한 것) 
   
   * Purposes of Agent-Based Conversation (Agent와의 대화의 목적)
     - Funtional한 것. Common Ground의 경우 co-constructed 하는 것이 아닌, Agent가 User의 성향을 기억하는 Personalisation의 관점으로 이해하고 있음. commonground was conceptualised as personalisation 
     - efficiency,reliability and security may be important for frequent long-term use of 
       conversational agents. (Agent Trust에 영향을 끼치는 요인들)
     - humouras more of a novelty feature that can help make interactions with agents more 
       interesting
     - Trust and listenership were defined in terms of system performance rather than important precursors for social bond (Agent에 대한 신뢰, 경청은 Agent의 Performance로 간주) 
     
   * Relationship Building in Agent-Based Conversation
     - human-agentconversations serve primarily transactional purposes.
     - CA were consideredas tools and assistants available to serve and accommodate people. (★★★★)      - Motivations for building a different relationship with CAs were questioned. (★★★★)
     - The prevailing perception of a master-servant relationship.  
     - participants fundamentally questioned the desire and ability to befriend or converse with an agent in the same way (★★★★. Agent와 친구가 된다는것, 친구처럼 대화 한다는것에 대해 회의적임)
     - social aspects of conversational interaction are currently absent from people’s perceptions
     - no desire to build bonds with conversational agents (그치만, 이것이 현재의 IPA의 수준 때문일수도)
     
   * conversation with agents may not be the best approach to use to develop bond.
     exploiting other modalities, especially in more embodied systems. 
     - Gesture and facial expressions cues embodiment may even help support speech-based conversation
     
     
     
     '
