---
published: true
title: CA paper No.5
classes: wide
categories:
  - Agent
tags:
  - Conversational Agent
  - HCI
  - Speech Interaction
  - Voice Interaction
---



1. Title & Reference: 

   Yang, X., Aurisicchio, M., & Baxter, W. (2019, April). Understanding Affective Experiences With Conversational Agents. In *Proceedings of the 2019 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems* (p. 542). ACM.

2. Objective: Google assistant

3. Theme of conversation (domain): 

   S1: Requesting Basic Information/ S2: Searching for Answers / S3: Getting Recommendations / S4: Accessing External Services

4. Memo: 

   * affective responses differed depending on the scenarios. 
   * both pragmatic and hedonic qualities influenced affect.
   * the factors underlying pragmatic quality are: helpfulness,proactivity,fluidity,seamlessness and responsiveness.
   * the factors underlying hedonic quality are: comfort in human-machine conversation, pride of using cutting-edge technology, fun during use,perception of having a human-like assistant, concern about privacy and fear of causing distraction.

   * pragmatic qualities are related to the functionality and usability of the system, which often fulfil users’ behavioural goals, where as hedonic qualities are related to non-instrumental qualities such as aesthetics, innovativeness or originality, which often emphasise users’ psychological well-being

   * Searching for Answers users experienced significantly higher level of interest than in the other scenarios.

   * increasing both pragmatic and hedonic qualities could significantly improve positive affect.

   * comfort,pride and funduring use,or the perception of having a real assistant can significantly contribute to positive affect. Positive affect can also be improved ifconcerns for privacy or distraction are reduced

   * pragmatic-related factors would significantly contribute to positive affect if satisfied, but would significantly cause negative affect if not.This suggests that reinforcing such factors in design would improve users’ positive experiences and reduce negative ones



