---
published: true
title: Hedonic vs Utilitarian No.5
classes: wide
categories:
  - Hedonic
tags:
  - Conversational Agent
  - HCI
  - Speech Interaction
  - Voice Interaction
  - Agent Style
---



1. Title (Reference):

   Li, J., Zhou, M. X., Yang, H., & Mark, G. (2017, March). Confiding in and listening to virtual agents: The effect of personality. In *Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces* (pp. 275-286). ACM.

2. Agent Type:  Embodied Agent, Female(Kaya)/Male(Albert) Human appearance

3. Theme of conversation (domain): Job interview

4. Result / Implication:  

   - users act authentically around a virtual interviewer to reveal their true character. 
   - users are more willing to confide in and listen to a serious, assertive REP. 
   - users’ personality traits influence their perception of and behavior with a REP

5. Memo: 

   * We focused on one user perception variable that was more different for the two REPs and also most relevant to a virtual interview context: Trust

   * For Albert, Conscientiousness significantly impacted Trust whereas for Kaya, Conscientiousness and Openness significantly influenced Trust

   * conscientious (big five) users trust a REP in general, and with also openmindedness, users will trust a cheerful REP like Kaya. 

   * For Kaya, Emotionality was significant, showing that more emotional, worried, and vulnerable users are less willing to confide in Kaya

   * extroverted and emotional users are less likely to inflate themselves to impress a serious REP.

   * more agreeable and trusting users are more willing to listen to a warm and cheerful persona like Kaya.

   * achievement-striving users tend to trust a REP more and such trust also makes them eager to impress the REP. 

